# SICP notes

## Key ideas

All computing begins with representing information, specifying logic to process it, and designing abstractions that manage the complexity of that logic.

Every powerful language has three such mechanisms:

primitive expressions and statements, which represent the simplest building blocks that the language provides,
means of combination, by which compound elements are built from simpler ones, and
means of abstraction, by which compound elements can be named and manipulated as units.

In programming, we deal with two kinds of elements: functions and data. (Soon we will discover that they are really not so distinct.) Informally, data is stuff that we want to manipulate, and functions describe the rules for manipulating the data. Thus, any powerful programming language should be able to describe primitive data and primitive functions, as well as have some methods for combining and abstracting both functions and data.

### Abstraction

What's abstraction? Abstraction is a mean to hide implementation details so that as long as the input and expected output don't change, how the abstraction is implemented is not relevant and other developers or programmaers can simply utilise the abstacted piece of code without worrying about the underlying details. Overall, abstraction helps modularise code to improve maintainability for programmers who develop the code and usability for other developers who rely on it in their programs.

- Types of abstraction:
  - Functional Abstraction: grouping combined computational elements and process as a single function
  - Class Abstractoin: grrouping combined computational elements and process as a single class

## Guide to designing function

- give each function exactly one job
- don't repeat yourself (DRY). Impelment a process just once, but execute it many times
- define functions generally

## Higher Order Functions

- Functions that manipulate functions are called higher-order functions. This section shows how higher-order functions can serve as powerful abstraction mechanisms, vastly increasing the expressive power of our language.

- decorators are hofs

## Lambda

When the function returned by the lambda expression is called, the return expression of a lambda expression executed.

- Lambdas can return other lambdas!

## Recusion

Recursion is a technique used for creating a function that is defined in terms of itself. It means that if a recursive function will call itself when it was executed. The gist of recursion is that it has to have base case defined so that it will eventually return, and when the fucntion calls itself, it does so with a smaller or simpler set of input so that the function will eventually reach the base case and return.

The order of a recursive function is that all the recursive calls have to return before the first function frame that trigger the recursive call can proceed.

When recursively processing lists, the base case is often the empty list and the recursive case is often all-but-the-first items.

A tree recursive function is a recursive function that makes more than one call to itself, resulting in a tree-like series of calls.

## object

An object is a bundle of data and behavior.

A type of object is called a class.

Immutable vs. Mutable

- An immutable value is unchanging once created.

Immutable types (that we've covered): int, float, string, tuple

A mutable value can change in value throughout the course of computation. All names that refer to the same object are affected by a mutation.

Mutable types (that we've covered): list, dict

A default argument value is part of a function value, not generated by a call.

Each time the function is called, s is bound to the same value.

## Closure

it refers to the property of a data type

A method for combining data values has a closure property if the result of combination can itself be combined using the same method. Closure is the key to power in any means of combination because it permits us to create hierarchical structures — structures made up of parts, which themselves are made up of parts, and so on.

e.g. a list can hold another list as an element

## Object Oriented Programming

The Python object system is designed to make data abstraction and message (State) passing both convenient and flexible.

We would like to use the object system to promote a separation of concerns. Each object in a program encapsulates and manages some part of the program's state, and each class statement defines the functions that implement some part of the program's overall logic. Abstraction barriers enforce the boundaries between different aspects of a large program.

Object-oriented programming is particularly well-suited to programs that model systems that have separate but interacting parts.

On the other hand, functional abstractions provide a more natural metaphor for representing relationships between inputs and outputs. One should not feel compelled to fit every bit of logic in a program within a class, especially when defining independent functions for manipulating data is more natural.

## Polymorphism

Defining the repr function presents a new challenge: we would like it to apply correctly to all data types, even those that did not exist when repr was implemented. We would like it to be a generic or polymorphic function, one that can be applied to many (poly) different forms (morph) of data.

By implementing this same method in user-defined classes, we can extend the applicability of repr to any class we create in the future. This example highlights another benefit of dot expressions in general, that they provide a mechanism for extending the domain of existing functions to new object types.

The str constructor is implemented in a similar manner: it invokes a method called **str** on its argument.

Polymorphic functions are examples of a more general principle: certain functions should apply to multiple data types. Moreover, one way to create such a function is to use a shared attribute name with a different definition in each class.

Polymorphism can be achieved through shared interface (class attribute / methods), type dispatch or type coercion.

## Composition vs Inheritance

Inheritance represents the "is-a" relationship. E.g --> a rabbit is an animal so rabbit inherits the class of animal

Composition represents the "has-a" relationship. E.g --> a zoo has an animal or more so it keeps track of it in an attribute called animals using a list.

## Special Class methods

There are two main ways to produce the "string" of an object in Python: str() and repr(). While the two are similar, they are used for different purposes.

str() is used to describe the object to the end user in a "Human-readable" form, while repr() can be thought of as a "Computer-readable" form mainly used for debugging and development.

When we define a class in Python, **str** and **repr** are both built-in methods for the class.
